tail-sampling/README.md, before:

# Tail Sampling Demo for Video Presentation

This project demonstrates tail sampling with OpenTelemetry for a video presentation.

## Project Overview

This demo showcases tail sampling using:

- A Python Flask application (simulated Order Service)
- OpenTelemetry for instrumentation
- OpenTelemetry Collector for tail sampling
- Jaeger for trace visualization (as a stand-in for Splunk Observability Cloud)

## Tail Sampling Rules

The demo implements the following sampling policies:

1. **Error Sampling**: Captures 100% of traces with error status
2. **Latency Sampling**: Captures 100% of traces with latency > 1.5s
3. **Error Attribute Sampling**: Captures 100% of traces with the error attribute
4. **Probabilistic Sampling**: Captures 10% of all other traces

## Project Structure

```
tail-sampling/
├── app/
│   ├── app.py               # Flask application with OTel instrumentation
│   ├── Dockerfile           # Container definition for the app
│   └── requirements.txt     # Python dependencies
├── docker-compose.yaml      # Orchestrates all services
├── generate_load.sh         # Script to generate test traffic
├── otel-collector-config-with-sampling.yaml  # OTel Collector config with tail sampling
├── otel-collector-config-no-sampling.yaml  # OTel Collector config without tail sampling
├── otel-collector-config-with-sampling-splunk.yaml  # Tail sampling with Splunk export
├── otel-collector-config-no-sampling-splunk.yaml  # No tail sampling with Splunk export
├── switch_collector_config.sh  # Script to switch between configurations
├── README.md               # This file
└── splunk_integration.md   # Instructions for Splunk Observability Cloud
```

## Running the Demo

### Standard Demo

1. Build and start the services:
   ```
   docker compose up -d
   ```

2. Generate some load to see sampling in action:
   ```
   ./generate_load.sh
   ```

3. View traces in Jaeger UI: http://localhost:16686

### Before/After Tail Sampling Comparison

The demo includes a script to switch between two collector configurations to demonstrate the impact of tail sampling:

1. Start with no tail sampling:
   ```
   ./switch_collector_config.sh no-tail
   ```
   This will run the service with the name `no-order-service` in Jaeger UI.

2. Generate load and observe all traces in Jaeger:
   ```
   ./generate_load.sh
   ```

3. Switch to tail sampling configuration:
   ```
   ./switch_collector_config.sh tail
   ```
   This will run the service with the name `with-order-service` in Jaeger UI.

4. Generate load again and observe how tail sampling affects trace volume:
   ```
   ./generate_load.sh
   ```

5. Compare the number of traces and their characteristics in Jaeger UI. You can easily distinguish between the sampling modes by selecting the appropriate service name in the Jaeger UI dropdown.

6. Check current configuration status any time:
   ```
   ./switch_collector_config.sh status
   ```

## Expected Results

After generating 200 requests:
- Approximately 20 error traces (10% of total)
- Approximately 20 high-latency traces (10% of total)
- Approximately 16 "normal" traces (10% of the remaining 80%)
- Total: ~56 traces in Jaeger instead of 200

## Splunk Observability Cloud Integration

This demo supports exporting traces to both Jaeger (default) and Splunk Observability Cloud.

### Using the Switch Script for Splunk Integration

1. Create a `.env` file with your Splunk credentials:
   ```
   SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN=your-access-token
   SPLUNK_REALM=your-realm (e.g., us1)
   ```

2. To switch to a configuration that exports to Splunk:
   ```
   # With tail sampling and Splunk export
   ./switch_collector_config.sh splunk-tail
   
   # Without tail sampling but with Splunk export
   ./switch_collector_config.sh splunk-no-tail
   ```

3. For more details on Splunk Observability Cloud integration, see [splunk_integration.md](splunk_integration.md).

## Troubleshooting

### Service Not Appearing in Jaeger UI

If you're having trouble seeing the services in Jaeger UI:

1. Make sure all containers are running:
   ```
   docker compose ps
   ```

2. Verify that you've generated some load:
   ```
   ./generate_load.sh
   ```

3. If changes to code aren't reflected after switching configs:
   ```
   # Full rebuild and restart
   docker compose down
   docker compose build --no-cache
   docker compose up -d
   ```

4. Check the service name being used:
   ```
   docker exec tail-sampling-order-service-1 env | grep OTEL_SERVICE_NAME
   ```

### Common Issues

- **Old service names still showing in Jaeger**: This is normal - Jaeger keeps historical service data. Look for the correct service name (`with-order-service` or `no-order-service`)

- **Configuration not taking effect**: Ensure the collector is using the right config by checking logs:
  ```
  docker compose logs otel-collector | grep tail_sampling
  ```

## Video Talking Points

1. **Introduction to Tail Sampling**:
   - Decision made after the trace is complete
   - Collects more context for better decisions
   - Preserves important traces while reducing volume

2. **The Problem with Head Sampling**:
   - Decisions are made at span creation time
   - No knowledge of future spans or trace outcome
   - May miss important traces (errors, high latency)

3. **Demonstration Flow**:
   - Show the application generating mixed traffic
   - Explain the sampling rules in the collector
   - Compare the number of traces generated vs captured
   - Verify that all error and high-latency traces are preserved

4. **Splunk Observability Cloud Migration**:
   - Show how the same sampling rules apply
   - Only the export destination changes

Commit message:

Switch to Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector and fix service naming

tail-sampling/README.md, after:

# Tail Sampling Demo for Video Presentation

This project demonstrates tail sampling with OpenTelemetry for a video presentation.

## Project Overview

This demo showcases tail sampling using:

- A Python Flask application (simulated Order Service)
- OpenTelemetry for instrumentation
- Splunk Distribution of the OpenTelemetry Collector for tail sampling
- Jaeger for trace visualization (as a stand-in for Splunk Observability Cloud)

## Tail Sampling Rules

The demo implements the following sampling policies:

1. **Error Sampling**: Captures 100% of traces with error status
2. **Latency Sampling**: Captures 100% of traces with latency > 1.5s
3. **Error Attribute Sampling**: Captures 100% of traces with the error attribute
4. **Probabilistic Sampling**: Captures 10% of all other traces

## Project Structure

```
tail-sampling/
├── app/
│   ├── app.py               # Flask application with OTel instrumentation
│   ├── Dockerfile           # Container definition for the app
│   └── requirements.txt     # Python dependencies
├── docker-compose.yaml      # Orchestrates all services
├── generate_load.sh         # Script to generate test traffic
├── otel-collector-config-with-sampling.yaml  # OTel Collector config with tail sampling
├── otel-collector-config-no-sampling.yaml  # OTel Collector config without tail sampling
├── otel-collector-config-with-sampling-splunk.yaml  # Tail sampling with Splunk export
├── otel-collector-config-no-sampling-splunk.yaml  # No tail sampling with Splunk export
├── switch_collector_config.sh  # Script to switch between configurations
├── README.md               # This file
└── splunk_integration.md   # Instructions for Splunk Observability Cloud
```

## Running the Demo

### Standard Demo

1. Build and start the services:
   ```
   docker compose up -d
   ```

2. Generate some load to see sampling in action:
   ```
   ./generate_load.sh
   ```

3. View traces in Jaeger UI: http://localhost:16686

### Before/After Tail Sampling Comparison

The demo includes a script to switch between two collector configurations to demonstrate the impact of tail sampling:

1. Start with no tail sampling:
   ```
   ./switch_collector_config.sh no-tail
   ```
   This will run the service with the name `no-order-service` in Jaeger UI.

2. Generate load and observe all traces in Jaeger:
   ```
   ./generate_load.sh
   ```

3. Switch to tail sampling configuration:
   ```
   ./switch_collector_config.sh tail
   ```
   This will run the service with the name `with-order-service` in Jaeger UI.

4. Generate load again and observe how tail sampling affects trace volume:
   ```
   ./generate_load.sh
   ```

5. Compare the number of traces and their characteristics in Jaeger UI. You can easily distinguish between the sampling modes by selecting the appropriate service name in the Jaeger UI dropdown.

6. Check current configuration status any time:
   ```
   ./switch_collector_config.sh status
   ```

## Expected Results

After generating 200 requests:
- Approximately 20 error traces (10% of total)
- Approximately 20 high-latency traces (10% of total)
- Approximately 16 "normal" traces (10% of the remaining 80%)
- Total: ~56 traces in Jaeger instead of 200

## Splunk Integration

This demo uses the Splunk Distribution of OpenTelemetry Collector (`quay.io/signalfx/splunk-otel-collector`) and supports exporting traces to both Jaeger (default) and Splunk Observability Cloud.

### Key Features of Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector

- Pre-configured with recommended settings for Splunk products
- Includes all necessary extensions and processors for comprehensive observability
- Compatible with standard OpenTelemetry APIs and configurations
- Enhanced security features and optimized performance

### Using the Switch Script for Splunk Integration

1. Create a `.env` file with your Splunk credentials:
   ```
   SPLUNK_ACCESS_TOKEN=your-access-token
   SPLUNK_REALM=your-realm (e.g., us1)
   ```

2. To switch to a configuration that exports to Splunk:
   ```
   # With tail sampling and Splunk export
   ./switch_collector_config.sh splunk-tail
   
   # Without tail sampling but with Splunk export
   ./switch_collector_config.sh splunk-no-tail
   ```

3. Even without Splunk credentials, you can still use all demo features with Jaeger visualization.

4. For more details on Splunk Observability Cloud integration, see [splunk_integration.md](splunk_integration.md).

## Troubleshooting

### Service Not Appearing in Jaeger UI

If you're having trouble seeing the services in Jaeger UI:

1. Make sure all containers are running:
   ```
   docker compose ps
   ```

2. Verify that you've generated some load:
   ```
   ./generate_load.sh
   ```

3. If changes to code aren't reflected after switching configs:
   ```
   # Full rebuild and restart
   docker compose down
   docker compose build --no-cache
   docker compose up -d
   ```

4. Check the service name being used:
   ```
   docker exec tail-sampling-order-service-1 env | grep OTEL_SERVICE_NAME
   ```

### Common Issues

- **Old service names still showing in Jaeger**: This is normal - Jaeger keeps historical service data. Look for the correct service name (`with-order-service` or `no-order-service`)

- **Configuration not taking effect**: Ensure the collector is using the right config by checking logs:
  ```
  docker compose logs otel-collector | grep tail_sampling
  ```

## Video Talking Points

1. **Introduction to Tail Sampling**:
   - Decision made after the trace is complete
   - Collects more context for better decisions
   - Preserves important traces while reducing volume

2. **The Problem with Head Sampling**:
   - Decisions are made at span creation time
   - No knowledge of future spans or trace outcome
   - May miss important traces (errors, high latency)

3. **Demonstration Flow**:
   - Show the application generating mixed traffic
   - Explain the sampling rules in the collector
   - Compare the number of traces generated vs captured
   - Verify that all error and high-latency traces are preserved

4. **Splunk Observability Cloud Migration**:
   - Show how the same sampling rules apply
   - Only the export destination changes
